[MUSIC]
In this video we are going to create
randomness where our guess starts off
random and when we click lower it's gonna
be random between a minimum and a maximum.
Likewise, higher,
a random between a minimum and a maximum.
At the moment in our game,
our first guess is always 500.
If we click higher,
the next guess is always 750,
higher again it's always 875 and so on.
And this predictability in
some circumstances is good.
But we wanna create some
randomness in our game so
it's not the same thing over and over.
And we can create some randomness
by using Random.Range.
So I've given you a link in
the resources to the unity docs.
I'm just looking at Random.Range here and
the rules are slightly different if your
using a float, if we scroll down
compared with if we're using an integer.
So when we're using an integer using
random.range will return a value
between the minimum and the maximum.
And an important point here is
that minimum is inclusive and
the maximum is exclusive.
So if we're returning between one and ten.
It will give us a value anywhere.
Including one all the way up to nine.
Because it's exclusive
it doesn't include 10.
It will give us the integer
that is just below that.
So I've given you this link and
I'm going to give you a challenge.
The challenge is to
make your guess random.
Use Random.Range to make a random
guess between max and min.
So, have a look at the doc,
this is a little bit of a,
I'm gonna give you the problem,
and give you a lot of clues.
I want you to go and solve this yourself.
I really want you to pause the video.
Take on the challenge.
You have everything you
need to do this one.
So don't sit there and
just be like, I'm waiting for
Rick to show me the answer to this.
Actually dive in and do it.
That is how you learn, that is how you
improve, that's how you get better.
Okay, I'm gonna give you
some bonus points here for
a couple of other things we need to do.
If you refactor, hit bonus points four,
refactoring our guess calculation
code to only one place.
We currently have the same
code in two places,
let me just very quickly
show you what I mean there.
We currently have our code here and
our code here, so
we're running exactly the same code twice.
So there's a challenge is to refactor
our guess calculation to only
have the code in one place, and also for
bonus points stop the computer from
being able to guess something
that it has already guessed.
So, if it guesses 500, then we want to
make sure that it doesn't guess 500 again.
And that will be slight tweak,
just a couple of little,
little additions to our code, to make
sure that when we're using Random.Range,
we don't allow the computer to guess
something we've already guessed.
So that's maybe a little bit
of a stretch goal, there.
It's pretty simple, code-wise, but
this requires you to really
think about what's going on, and
have a look at your logic, and figure
out a way to stop that from happening.
So there is the challenge, I really,
really, really want you to jump in and
take on this challenge.
And I'll see you back here,
when you've that done.
Okay, you might be
sitting there waiting for
me to come back and give you the answer.
If you're doing that I want you
to really pause the video and
jump in and take on this challenge.
Okay this time I am going back to
the code, I'm not gonna sit there for
five minutes saying are you
doing the challenge yet?
Okay, so what do we need to do?
First off we need to,
I'll start by refactoring.
So I've mentioned that we've got
this code is the same as this code,
but what is this code?
This code here is NextGuess.
NextGuess is saying, have our guess and
then display it on the screen.
So instead of writing all of this up here,
we can just call NextGuess.
That will do the same thing as those
two lines and it cleans it up.
We don't have to do this.
Our code will work just fine but
this is a good habit to get into because
if we go and change our logic in here and
we forget to do it up in where we had it
just here, if we forget to do it up in.
Let me undo this.
If we forget to do it here, then we've
got something different here and
different there.
So wherever we can,
we try to have it consistent.
I'll just redo,
my change back to the NextGuess.
Okay, we didn't startgame method,
we have NextGuess.
Now let's look at our
randomness down to NextGuess,
we have guess equals max
plus min divided by 2.
Well, instead of that I'm going to
use random, rangom, random dot range.
And then parentheses, and you can see
after we talked about first parentheses it
gives us the clue here,
it's looking for min and then max, and
cool is that we've actually named
to have variables min and max.
It didn't know that, it just happen to
be we were clever when we named it, so
we can say min, max, that's gonna choose
a random value that is inclusive of min,
so at the moment it would be
1 up to max which is 1,000.
Let's save, back into Unity.
I was already on play.
Click on play again.
Now the first guess is 719,
that is definitely random.
And then if we click on higher,
it's random 970, lower 852,
so we can't see an obvious
pattern here now which is great.
We've introduced randomness into our game,
very cool.
So I mentioned that we had
another part of our bonus points,
which was to stop the computer from being
able to guess an already guessed a number.
I'm going to click on game play
which shows us our max and
min variables that are exposed
in the inspector here.
When I click play,
we see that we start off with
a guess of 535 my maximum is 1001.
Well, that's an issue as well,
that's something we'll need
to change in a moment.
It should be 1000.
If I click Higher, then my minimum is 535
and you see my guess here now is 562.
If I click Higher, then our minimum is
562 just as our code is asking it to do.
But our minimum shouldn't be 562.
It should be what?
563 because we've already guessed 562.
That was our guess, so
it shouldn't be the minimum and
because minimum and maximum as part
of our Random.Range is inclusive,
it's saying I will include
this as part of my guess.
It could now guess 562, so if I go Lower,
Lower, Lower, Lower, Lower.
It's guessing 562, but
it's guessed that already.
So, hopefully you jumped in and
had a look to see what you
can do with your logic here.
It's pretty straightforward I think.
If we look at our OnPressHigher,
our minimum is going to be our guess.
So if we say it's higher,
our minimum is now changed to our guess.
Let's have a look and see, so,
if we click Higher, it's currently 407.
We click Higher, our minimum becomes 407.
We want it to be one more than that.
So we want our minimum to be guess + 1.
And likewise, when we're pressing lower,
we want our maximum to be our guess- 1.
So that we don't go all
the way up to our guess.
Save back into unity, click on play.
Now our first guess is 382,
when I click Higher,
the minimum is now 383 that's great, so
the lowest we gonna get down to is 383,
cool.
And the last thing to do is
to check out our edge cases.
If we click on Higher
what can we go up to?
Well our maximum is 1001.
We don't want that.
Let's see what happens
if we can go down lower.
Our minimum is one.
So we know at the start, that would be
the lowest we can get down to is one.
So let's just go and
have a look at our logic here and
finally we get to get rid of this
somewhat messy: max = max +1.
If we just delete that, save.
Now, I believe when we play our game,
the maximum will be 1,000.
Yes and the minimum is one cool.
So guess all the way out to 1000,
excellent.
And as a final point, a big thank you to
Tiago who pointed out that because min
is inclusive and max is exclusive,
we need to have our guess max plus one,
so that we can still go all the way
up to whatever our max value is.
Thanks for pointing that out, Tiago.
And thanks for everyone who points
out problems and issues and
mistakes I make in my videos.
It really helps make the course
much better, so thank you for that.
Great work,
that's all of our code taken care of.
In the next video we'll just do a last
little bit of polishing our game and
then I think we're done.
Great work, and see you in the next video.